---
layout: post
title: "The Madness of Multiscalarity"
course: GEOG520
year: YearOne
season: Spring
calyear: 2023
comments: false
---
## Beginnings
In the beginning, long before now, I wanted to be a dolphin trainer. I started learning how to swim as a toddler and grew confident as a child...and damn did I love the water. At the time, that's all that mattered. I didn't know that the marine life I would see performing in SeaWorld advertisements were being mistreated, nor did I know that there were entire tourism economies that thrived on the backs of local people living near the temperate waters of the Equator and on the fins of dolphins and rays that lived beside them. It seems like children find most everything alluring. Yet, I hesitate to conclude the thought there, as I'm reminded of countless class discussions where we also pointed to the child labor that enables and provides for our lifestyles; to the child soldiers who are taken and enlisted to fight for others' freedoms; to the other end of the spectrum where children are orphaned from war. I wonder about what parts of life *are* alluring to children in these circumstances. Is it the Western Capitalist society that is glamorized? The Asian capitalist societies who are rising in power? Is it the material or immaterial?

For young Namjoon Kim (김남준) and Yoongi Min (민윤기), it was music. In the 30 years that followed the Korean War, South Korea saw a period of economic growth – turbulent, but positive nonetheless. However, this was happening concurrently with overwhelming political instability during which time corporate conglomerates (chaebol/jaebol, 재벌) were established (e.g., Hyundai, LG, Samsung). It was due to these nepotistic and otherwise corrupt business practices coupled with little regulation from the financial sector that the country faced a financial crisis in the late 1990’s and required a bailout from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The conditions of the bailout were strict and required the Korean banks to increase interest rates in a way that caused already precarious citizens to become even more at risk. It is under these conditions that Namjoon and Yoongi were raised and with this backdrop that they looked to music and performing as a means of surviving. 

## Somewhere Along the Way...
It is not a localized phenomenon for people to seek refuge in art; respective forms of folk music can be found globally. Similarly, this is how hip-hop came to be – from the parks of the Bronx and Brooklyn, spun by the hands of Black and Brown communities. During hip-hop’s infancy, members of these communities were stifled by racist systems and institutions, and so mixing tapes and cutting tracks came to be not only a “safe space,” but an act of subversion and resistance. 

Music and performance also have a history of weaponization. During the Korean War, women performed for military servicemen and afterwards, followed by a period called the “Dark Days,” when political leaders pushed for “the Three S’s,” screen, sports, and sex, presumably as a tactic to distract from political affairs and discourage political unrest. Perhaps ironically, it is through these channels that Western music entered the public sphere and the first “Korean hip-hop” group debuted in the early 1990’s.

## Lost!
These were the artists that inspired Namjoon and Yoongi – more popularly known as R.M. and Suga – who are now famous for being two of the three rapping members of the Korean-pop (K-pop) boy-band called Bangtan Sonyeondan (BTS, 방탄소년단). Together, they’ve been nominated for the Grammys five times and since they announced their group hiatus, individual members have gone to pursue solo projects that have been topping the global and U.S. Billboard Charts. Yet, at the start of their career, they were mocked by underground rappers who lobbed pointed questions targeting their embodiment of “idols” (which is a colloquially used term in the Korean entertainment industry) – puppets to perform for the masses, feminized by the use of make-up, and emasculated by jaebol-esque entertainment agencies that tend to have an almost authoritarian control over their signees. 

True to the original hip-hop, they addressed these comments through diss-tracks which became particularly powerful after they had achieved global acclaim. In these tracks, not only did they “show up” through their performance, but they also had the material goods to flaunt as well, which they incorporate into their lyrics. But it wasn’t because of the edgy diss-track nor is it because of their more recent, poppier hits that they rose to fame. Rather, it was because of the extent to which they followed the hip-hop tradition. 

## Found?
Their first albums were far deeper in the genre that we now understand as hip-hop than their recent productions. These earlier albums were laden with lyrics that delivered scathing commentary on the social conditions of the youth in South Korea. It took them a few years before they went recognized, which could have been for a couple of reasons. Around the time the group debuted, there was an oligopoly on entertainment agencies, known as "the Big Three": SM Entertainment, JYP Entertainment, and YG Entertainment, and because of the residual jaebol collusion and the similar structure of broadcasting companies, idol-hopefuls would only have a competitive chance at "making it," if they were from one of these agencies. BTS signed on with a "no-name" label and was black-listed from the music shows, award ceremonies, and television promotion opportunities. This and the evolution of digital platform technologies pushed them to engage with audiences in a way that was novel and intimate - a model the other agencies would adopt after seeing their success. 

It's possible that it's because of this engagement that they were able to relay more personal messages, such as to "love yourself," which caught the attention of the United Nations and became the "Love Myself" campaign. Despite being at the height of their success, the group decided to take a hiatus in 2022 and focus on independent projects. Many of the members had felt as though the grind of the Korean entertainment industry keeping them from living the banal everyday, stifling their growth as people, and distancing them from the realities of others. In the same vein, because South Korea still remains a nation with conscription, a couple of the members were nearing their age limit for deferring their mandatory service. There was speculation that given their success at growing the South Korean economy while also promoting its cultural exports, the members would receive a pardon, which they refused. As of this moment, two members are enlisted and a third will join in the coming year. 

## The Fifth Dimension
All this to say, it is absolute madness that the words above span the scales of the **individual** (e.g., me, the individual band members, individual political actors, etc.), **group and community** (e.g., the originators of hip-hop, the first groups to incorporate it with Korean themes and audiences, generations of youth, generations of war, etc.), **institutions** (e.g., the military, government parties/factions, entertainment agencies, jaebols, etc.), **nations**, and the **globe** (e.g., U.N., BTS's fanbase - Army), over various scales of ***time***, too. I'm no physicist, nor do I indulge in much reading for pleasure these days (aka, sci-fi, fantasy, futurism, etc.), but I wonder if it's possible that scale is somewhat of the fifth dimension? It isn't something we can see, per se, but it *is* observable; it doesn't have a linear direction; it requires both time and space of varying amounts; it's relational...

...all this to say that I may not be any closer to knowing how, either exactly *or* remotely, to address scale, but there's certainly no doubt that **Scale Matters!**


Thank you for a wonderful semester.
